what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I
want to talk about the personal
statement how I wrote it when I was
thinking and things that I've tried to
focus on and what I wanted the readers
to take away from it I'm currently
sitting in a tree house a couple of
hours north of Toronto at an Airbnb that
me and my friends rented in an area
called Muskoka we're just here for the
weekend to sort of get away from the
city for a little bit enjoy the lake the
Sun go kayaking do some hiking and
activities and I'll be back to my
regular research work in a couple of
days anyway while I was out here I sort
of had a lot of time to relax and think
and I started thinking about my time
before medicine my applications and more
specifically I was really thinking about
the personal statement so I got a little
bit inspired by that and I thought hey
why not make a video and upload it to
the YouTube channel also I wanted to say
a big thank you to all the new
subscribers who have come to the channel
welcome I hope you enjoy the videos I
hope you like the future content and
please feel free to leave me a comment
shoot me an email anything you want
really to interact or keep in touch a
lot of you guys I know are applying to
Kings as well so please keep me updated
with your applications I would love to
follow you guys on your journey
hopefully you get in and if you do
please feel free to come say hi to me on
campus and yeah let's just jump right
into the video okay so I want to start
by talking about a couple of
housekeeping tips for writing the
personal statement you don't want to sit
down and write the personal statement in
one day you want to give yourself a long
period of time to write your personal
statements start early you're gonna have
many many drafts you're gonna show it to
a lot of people and you're gonna want to
have some time to think about what
you're writing and work on it if you do
it all in one go you run the risk of
rushing it and not writing or forgetting
about things that you might have done in
the past and not writing it as best as
you could have as you're volunteering as
you're doing work experience or as
things are happening to in your life
just make a note of them so that you
have easy access to those thoughts those
emotions that you were feeling at the
time what you learned from when it comes
to writing your personal statement you
want to have a list of these things
ready so that when it comes to personal
statement time you you can have an
option and a choice of what you want to
choose from and also don't get me wrong
I know personal statement can be written
in one day actually I have a friend in
med school
me who wrote it on a flight back from
vacation on an airplane on his iPhone so
it's definitely possible to do in one
day and a quick go but honestly that's
too stressful for me and you don't you
want to play it safe you want to give
yourself a bit more time than that also
show your personal statement to as many
people as you can who you trust to give
you objective feedback good feedback you
want to get a lot of people's opinions
they might see something that you
wouldn't have thought of or maybe
they'll see you they'll give you
something from a different perspective
because once you've written your
personal statement and you've read it
and try to edit it like a hundred times
you're gonna start like going kind of
crazy and you want to have other people
look at your personal statements that
they can give you an opinion that you
might not have seen and the final tip I
want to give for the personal statement
is do some research on the websites of
the actual schools that you're going to
apply to a lot of them will have
sections where they say what they're
looking for in a medical school
candidate and they'll often list what
they want to see in a personal statement
or what they want to see come across
from a candidate in interviews and those
are things that you should definitely
print out and try and include inside of
your personal statement and trying to
include them inside of your interview
answers as well a lot of what I'm going
to talk about today and a lot of the
points I want to make about the personal
statement is that no matter what your
experience is you can tailor it to do
something with medicine so what I really
wanted to make sure that I got across in
my personal statement was that I didn't
just wake up one day deciding that I
wanted to do medicine although I always
knew that I wanted to do medicine I
really loved science and it was
something that I always enjoyed and look
forward to my decision to do medicine
was reached after very careful
consideration lots of experiences that
sort of confirmed for me this is
actually what I wanted to do it was a
very mature and conscious decision it
wasn't just an on the WIMP and that's
something that I really wanted to get
across to interviewers I wanted to let
them know that I made this decision very
consciously and that I had the drive and
passion to pursue medicine and actually
finish the degree and enjoy it as a
career also something that's very
important to show the people reading
your personal statement do you have a
realistic understanding of what it means
to be a doctor and what it means to have
a career in medicine if you give them
the impression that you've sort of just
like seen a couple of TV shows and you
think that's what medicine is then
they're probably not going to find that
too great you want to give them a
realistic understanding a realistic
impression of what being a doctor is
like throughout the end of my high
school years and all the time in
university I took every opportunity and
experience that I could to try and
understand what it meant
to be a doctor what I meant to practice
medicine and then involve the whole
range of things from doing like summer
camps observer ships with surgeons to
volunteering at lab hospitals and also
volunteering at the Canadian Center for
victims of torture I was even on the
University of Toronto aerospace team
where I was developing biological
experiments to go on a satellite that
was gonna be launched by NASA if we
ended up winning the national
competition so I was trying to involve
myself in absolutely as many things as
possible that involved science research
and medicine but more than that the
important thing is involving yourself in
in work or experience where you're
dealing with other people whether you're
helping other people taking care of
other people serving other people a lot
of medicine is about being social about
interacting with your patients
interacting with others who might be
different from you have different ethnic
diversity different cultures different
opinions and that's really what medicine
is about it's about being able to
communicate with someone else who's
different than you and to help them so
there are many different ways to
structure a personal statement some
people do it around like a story that
goes throughout the whole person's name
and some people make it revolve around a
single life event that happened to them
personally I took a very structured very
logical approach and I sort of went
through a timeline of my high school
years two university years of different
experiences and things that happen to me
which made me know that I wanted to
pursue medicine so I did that by talking
about a lot of the experiences that I
just mentioned but talking about those
experiences isn't really important it's
about how you reflect on them so saying
that you did hundreds or thousands of
hours volunteering in a care home or in
the hospital or shadowing a doctor or
whatever is honestly not important
the important thing is what you learned
what you took away from that experience
how that made you realize that you
wanted to be a doctor how they gave you
a better understanding of what being a
doctor would will be like and it's what
you take away from it how you reflect on
your experience that's important whether
you were a server at a restaurant
whether you were working in a care home
whether you were volunteering with
disabled children if you were
volunteering at a food bank or a
homeless shelter
whatever the experience is it's about
what you took away from it how you
learned to communicate with people how
you learn to to overcome challenges how
you learn to take a leadership position
reflecting is so important because so
many students who apply for medicine
will have done volunteering they will
have done shadowing experiences they
will have done some sort of amazing
extracurricular
and if everyone just lists what they did
or it talks about the actions that
happened in their experiences then a lot
of it is gonna be the exact same so I
started my personal statement talking
about the shadowing experiences that I
had with a cardiothoracic surgeon in Abu
Dhabi when I was at the end of my high
school years and at the time I was just
in high school I really didn't know much
about medicine I didn't know too much
about what being a doctor would be like
and I didn't understand any of the
surgeries that I was watching I didn't
understand any of the patient
consultations that I was a part of about
what I really took away from that
experience was the collaboration between
all the different staff members in the
hospital made me realize just how much
communication goes on within a hospital
how many people need to interact with
each other and give our information and
how complicated that system was because
before then I thought that a patient
would just see a doctor and the doctor
would see a patient and that was the end
of the interaction but turns out
obviously there's so much more and so
although I didn't understand them the
purely scientific and medicine aspects
of that experience I still learned
something very important then I also
went to a medical summer camp at the
University of Toronto which is actually
where I ended up studying from
undergraduate degree but I did a summer
camp there and what I really learned
there was when I meant to study medicine
I had talks from a lot of professor
professors I had talked from a lot of
professors who are pioneers in their
field also did a lot of laboratory
experiments and this order gave me the
idea of what it would be like to study
medicine we also did some Anatomy as
well so that gave me the more like
school aspect the more rigorous academic
side of what medicine might be like okay
so after that I moved on to my
undergraduate degree where I talked
about how I improved my scientific
reading my scientific analysis critical
analysis skills I learned to manage my
course loads under pressure and that's
actually also why I joined the
University of Toronto aerospace team
that I mentioned before and over there I
really learned how to take a more
managerial position or more leadership
position organize and host meetings
communication with other people there
were a lot of skills that I learned
through they're very very useful that
can be directly translated to being a
doctor I also have to do a lot of
independent research and learning for
that project and that's something that
told me how to like grind it out by
yourself
and focus and go hard and even if
something doesn't come easy at the
beginning resilience and continuing to
put in effort and working hard you'll
eventually reach your goal I'm
throughout all my summer breaks I was
volunteering in hospitals in diagnostic
laboratories I volunteered in a cyber
genetics lab and immunohistochemical II
compatibility lab and a neonatal
Diagnostics lab as well doing that every
summer and also did one observer ship or
shadowing off a doctor in my second Tula
my third to last summer I was taking
advantage of my summer breaks and
getting in as much experience and
volunteering as I could that helped show
my prolonged and real dedication towards
medicine so if just one off summer I
happen to do something related to
medicine it wouldn't be as telling as
consistently over the years trying to
find experiences trying to get involved
in activities that will show me what
medicine is life I had the opportunity
to shadow a orthopedic surgeon in Greece
and that was one of the more definitive
experiences of my time to show me that I
really wanted to do medicine this is
when I got to sit in on patient
consultations I got to interact with
patients I was also learning how to read
and diagnose x-rays with my with the
consultant and I also watched plenty
plenty of surgeries but now I could
actually read up on the surgeries
understand what was going on and sort of
reflect from that afterwards also
looking after patients in post-operative
care talking to them on a daily basis
seeing how they're doing and progressing
over time that was something that really
told me the interpersonal aspect of
medicine and it helped me understand
what a patient might be going through
after surgery that was a very valuable
experience for me and I definitely took
a lot away from that then finally I
talked about my volunteering at the
Canadian Center for victims of torture
over there I was helping immigrants we
came to Canada integrate into a Canadian
Society I was helping with
English lessons medicine and legal
translations into Arabic amongst a host
of other things and that was a truly
truly amazing experience if you can
volunteer with anyone who's less
fortunate than you or different than you
in terms of maybe disabilities I think
that's a very valuable experience and it
can honestly teach you a lot and
something that's directly translatable
and important to medicine and being a
doctor I also talked a little bit about
my hobbies like having a youtube channel
not this one I have another one where I
posted more personal videos about my
trips and vacations and things like that
I talked about that YouTube channel a
little bit I talked about playing on the
basketball sports team a university also
snowboarding in my winter breaks with my
friends just something to bring me back
to am or not so like rigorous academic
student to make my personal statement
more balanced to give them a bit of an
insight into the rest of my life too so
yeah overall I thought my personal
statement was really authentic I thought
it was really clear whatever your
experience is reflect on your experience
and related to two things a your drive
and passion for medicine why you really
want this why you believe you are a
strong candidate for medicine and to a
realistic understanding of what being a
doctor is a realistic understanding of
what it's like to be in a hospital what
it's like to interact with patients who
are different than you who might be
going through some very very troubling
times of their life just a realistic
understanding of what a doctor could be
like in the future of course you're not
expected to know because you're not a
doctor yet but they want you to make
sure you know what you're getting into
if you have this unrealistic expectation
of what's to come and that's not gonna
come across very well so yeah one final
thing I also started an Instagram page
called karma medic where I want to start
posting on a daily basis and insight
into my life as either a researcher like
I am right now
or as a medical student when I'm back at
Kings in September and I hope that gives
you guys more content on a daily basis
in between when I'm uploading these
videos and also I feel like it's a more
personal interaction you guys can send
me a message there and we can interact
in that way which i think is also really
cool so yeah guys please follow me on
that Instagram page definitely leave
comments unlike some of the pictures and
let me know anything you want to see in
particular so yeah guys that's it for
this video thank you so much for your
support for watching my videos for
subscribing to my channel I got so many
heartwarming emails from the last video
to thank you guys for putting in the
time to talk to me to send me messages
and to watch these videos I really
appreciate it leave a like on this video
if you enjoyed the content subscribe to
my channel if you want to see more
videos from me follow me on Instagram on
the newest newest thing that I just made
I'll put links up here somewhere have a
wonderful day and I'll see you in the
next video peace